---
layout: post
title: "Internship - First Week"
date: 2013-08-21 20:18
comments: true
categories:
---
Alright! My first week of my official internship has been going well. Yesterday, Day 1, I signed forms and familiarized myself with the building and systems. I also got my new computer up and running with the environments I wanted/needed. I thought it would be a complicated affair, but apparently all I really care about is having sublime, iterm, and homebrew. Updated a few things on the machine. Fairly smooth  - which gives me confidence that I may have learned a thing or two in the last 7 months. Which is weird to think about.

Retro alert! My last day working at "the bookstore" was mid Jan. Two weeks later I started code school and this blog ~ lasting 12 weeks. Afterwards, I spent a month interviewing/interning at a potential company that in the end decided to not hire me. They loved the product I produced but the actual code was too newbie for their situation. I took the news well and badly at the same time - I worked hard and their decision taught me a lot about tech culture and preferences. I got paid and got to get my hands dirty in a real company's code. Pretty cool. But why didn't I get the job? I thought a lot about it, trying to take it as a life lesson, and honestly it came down to what I wanted - not what I was capable of. I know I can focus on logic and build applications that are concise and beautiful, but honestly it's not my style. I like to build things that work and then fix it later. Lazy? Sure. But, at the end of the day I "make" and then it's out there. Why? Maybe because I'm older or a little ADD or too creative - I don't know - but obsessing about "perfect code" is out of my crosshairs. And MAYBE as I progress I'll change my mind about this - I'm open for sure. I've always been an inventor, which is why I got into coding, and I could do it ALL DAY. Saying this might bite me in the butt in the future but I think it's okay. Let's talk about what we actually want to build in the world, right? So, that led me to purely creating. I made sites on my own, tinkered with new technologies, abandoned some, and stuck with others. If I wasn't passionate about what I was working on I moved on. And that is what pushed me forward when the reality of joblessness and overwhelming learning kept knocking at the front door. I kept at it - pulled freelance work in and plainly put: stayed excited about it all. And then a magical opportunity fell into my lap.

After two months of freelance work and finding direction I got a head's up about an internship that I felt in no way qualified for. But it was with an infamous and intriguing company so, of course, I applied. I never felt nervous because I felt that it was such a long shot that I'd just have fun going through the process. And the process lasted for a month so I convinced myself that, of course, they weren't going to hire me. Well, I was gratefully wrong. I wasn't quite right for the internship they were looking for but they liked me enough to make room for me in a new title. So...

Here I am - working at a space that treats me in the exact opposite from what I've ever known. There is free soda, events with free food, and we don't have to do our dishes. Can you imagine? From a space that had regular emails about taking dishes away if people didn't do them to just leave your crap for someone else. It's hard to adjust - but not that hard :). Instead of clocking in with my card each day - I haven't even been told a schedule, in fact I was one of the first in my group to arrive today. I keep track of my own hours and take lunch for how long and when I want. That might seem small to some, but to me this is an exciting new perk. It boils down to respect. This company respects and trusts their employees to get their work done and do whatever they need to do to take care of themselves to do that work - what a concept! Did I mention there is a gym, nap rooms, and a cafe in the building? I have arrived.

And to quote my last blog post "To be honest, I really would like to get a job at a company but I'm finding that most places want a few years experience just to fix bugs. Which I totally understand, but really? - I have things I want to make. And I'm holding out for a company that is willing to help me learn while I work on their features, ideas, or anything creative. My code might not be optimal at times - but I learn quick and get things done. I miss pair programming and working on a team project and would love the opportunity to feel that spirit again soon. Overall, I just want to belong somewhere that fits my needs and I'm willing to wait for it. Maybe that's naive but I've come so far in switching "careers" that I feel solid in waiting for the right fit." I really feel like that is what is happening now. A space that allows me to grow and prosper. Jeez Louise, I am one lucky female dog.

Okay, back to the nitty gritty. My second day was spent setting up a virtual environment for Python and getting Flask and Django working. That enabled me to clone a current project repo and start with the API adjustment. I am super excited! Passion = possibilities. Church.